Canopy photos at the EucFACE

So called 'flat canopy photos', following the protocol of MacFarlane et al. 2007 (AgForMet 143, 176-188), at each of the 5x5m grid points in all six EucFACE rings.

The zip file contains:
- JPEGs at each of the grid point, in original resolution (in subfolder)
- Filekey<Date>.csv : a key to the filenames, and which locations they were taken at (in subfolder)
- EucFACE_overstorey_photo_points2.pdf : plots of the rings with the locations of the photo points

Data collected by:  Teresa Gimeno and Matthias Boer, as part of project P0037 led by Remko Duursma.


Protocol:

Preferably take photos in the morning to reduce sun exposure and/or on an overcast day.
NOTE: Do NOT get water droplets on lens.
Do NOT touch lens.

Camera/Lens

Nikon D90/Nikon AF 50 mm Sensitivity 1:1.8

Material

Camera and lens
Monopole (Check that you have the necessary piece to set the camera at 90 deg. Alternatively you can use a normal photography tripod)
3D Camera level
Digital compass (OBS iPhone 4 and above have a superb digital compass with a 1 deg resolution)
Ring Template or notebook and pen/pencil

Camera Settings

Check camera is set to A (priories aperture).
Quality fine (Make sure the camera is on JPEG only mode)
Light measured in multiple points (square with many dots)
F 10
Autofocus automatic: AF-A
Mount camera to pole and set it on a 90 deg angle.
Set camera at desired height 125 cm

Taking the photos

Make sure the crane is not above the ring. Radio Vinod/Steve/Craig to have it moved if needed.
Remove lens caps
Take a photo of the shed door to indicate ring number
Go to the first point to start taking pictures following the template.
Set the pole next to the first pole.
Set the camera facing with the bottom facing south using the compass
Level the camera.
Duck below camera and take the photo.
Move to the next pole (follow template)
Write down the first and the last picture on the camera on the template or your notebook.
Replace lens caps
Move to the next ring.

When you finish

Replace lens cap.
Turn off camera.
Download photos.
Ensure batteries are recharged.
